README.md, before:

# dftegrity

Ensure your dataframes have some 'tegrity

## 🚧 UNDER CONSTRUCTION 🚧

There are likely some debug print statements as well as unfinalized data structures, so if any bugs arise please be understanding

## Contributions

* Please extend the abstract `DataUnit` class for any new data types
* For data unit types that dont fall into a grouping of the existing dunit modules, please make a new file. Organization is important and minimizes merge conflicts

## Tests

## License

Inside `dftegrity.dunits` there is a subpackage called `dateinfer`

**This package was not created by me**, it was created by **@jeffreystar** and source can be found at [https://github.com/jeffreystarr/dateinfer](https://github.com/jeffreystarr/dateinfer)

The reason this package is embedded as source instead of being sourced from PyPi is because there are early version python relative imports that make the package **unusable in its distributed state**

**The only modifications to the version here are the relative imports have been updated - all credit for the package goes to @jeffreystar**

Commit message:

Added all functional data units that i have staged to release

README.md, after:

# dftegrity

Ensure your dataframes have some 'tegrity

## 🚧 UNDER CONSTRUCTION 🚧

There are likely some debug print statements as well as unfinalized data structures, so if any bugs arise please be understanding

## Workflow

## Catalogued Data Units

| Status | Class | Name | When to use |
| - | - | - | - |
| Live | Id | ID_UNIQUE | Ids that should not ever be duplicated in the df |
| Live | Id | ID_REUSED | Ids that will be reused, like every month a person with their own id has a new record |
| Live | Label | LABEL | Use for anything thats just a cosmetic label and you dont care what the values are |
| Live | Label | FREE_TEXT | Use for anything that is a long text descriptor. In the future there will be more functionality to check length and character encodings and typical considerations for NLP workflows |
| Live | Categorical | CATEGORICAL | Categorical values that have a discrete set of approved values. Accounts for various string and integer datatypes. **Use this for BOOLEAN values** |
| | Measure | MEASURE | Numerical values within and expected range. Basically any int or float that is not an encoding |
| | Date | DATE_DATETIME | When native `datetime` objects are stored |
| | Date | DATE_PATTERN | When you have string values in various pattern formats like: `yyyy-mm-dd` or `dd/mm/yyyy` |
| | Date | DATE_YEAR | String or numeric `YYYY` years |
| | Date | DATE_YYYYQQ | String or int `YYYYQQ` values like `2020q1`, `2020Q4`, `20201`, or `202004` |
| | Date | DATE_QUARTER | String values of any pattern of quarter like: `Quarter 1`, `1 Quarter`, `1Q`, `q2`. If your naming convention pattern doesnt work, dftegrity will let you know |
| | Date | DATE_YYYYMM | String or int `YYYYMM` values like `202001` for January or `202012` for December |
| | Date | DATE_MONTH_NAME | String month names like `January` or `Sep`. Note, if you are not using **full names** or the **3 letter** abbreviations, you need to change your naming pattern |
| | Date | DATE_MONTH_NUMERIC | String or int month numbers like `1`, `7`, etc |
| | Date | DATE_WEEK_0_START | String or int week values with `0` as the first week of the year and `51` as the last week |
| | Date | DATE_WEEK_1_START | String or int week values with `1` as the first week of the year and `52` ad the last week |
| | Date | DATE_DAY | String or int day of the month values `1-31` |
| Live | Unverified | UNVERIFIED | Any field not explicitly called out will be classified as UNVERIFIED and be skipped in profiling and verification |

A note on dates:

* Dates are a real pain in the ass. If your data uses a different format, consider changing it prior to building the profile or please submit a pull request with your custom handler
* I have made a conscious effort to cover various formats I see regularly, but it would be unreasonable to cover every last variant and convention encountered in the wild

## Contributions

* Please extend the abstract `DataUnit` class for any new data types
* For data unit types that dont fall into a grouping of the existing dunit modules, please make a new file. Organization is important and minimizes merge conflicts

## Tests

## License

Inside `dftegrity.dunits` there is a subpackage called `dateinfer`

**This package was not created by me**, it was created by **@jeffreystar** and source can be found at [https://github.com/jeffreystarr/dateinfer](https://github.com/jeffreystarr/dateinfer)

The reason this package is embedded as source instead of being sourced from PyPi is because there are early version python relative imports that make the package **unusable in its distributed state**

**The only modifications to the version here are the relative imports have been updated - all credit for the package goes to @jeffreystar**
